--- 
name: eurosceptics
layout: post
title: Eurosceptics
tags: [Politics]
time: 2005-12-17 20:26:00 +00:00
---

The British Press annoys me so much, they way they constantly get it  wrong
across the board about the EU. I am a fond supporter of the EU  for all its
faults and cracks. But I love freedom of the press and  like organisations who
uphold basic journalistic standards, such as  the BBC. This leads me onto the
evil man behind it all, Rupert Murdoch owner of The Sun, BSkyB Television, The
Times and other media outlets. It seems all he pushes is his agenda, whether
it be the Bush Right-Christian agenda on Fox in the US or Eurosceptic view in
his British interests.

I speak of this because of the shocking facts [I discovered on an EU website,
by the commissioner for the EU in The UK][EuroMyths]. Honestly some of the
things that are published are unbelievable! One can only guess Murdoch motives
(maybe to foster the *special relationship* between UK and USA even further?)
Who knows? One thing is for certain, the US resent the EU bargaining power and
good relations with China and Russia. One to hit the headlines was US
supposedly using spy planes to ferry people to be tortured in countries such
as Egypt (Known for bad Human Rights record).

I think British People do not realise how beneficial giving money to aid
development is, take my own country , Ireland for instance. Forty years ago we
were a backward nation with no prospects, Now we are one of the richest in
Europe and will become a contributor to the EU soon. We should aim to
replicate the *Ireland Effect* in the new accession countries to help the
develop. If they grow, it means an enlarged market for British made products,
thereby helping generate more wealth - what goes around comes around, this is
not a battle for  identity with France or Germany any more!

[EuroMyths]: http://www.cec.org.uk/press/myths/index.htm "http://www.cec.org.uk/press/myths/index.htm"