--- 
name: profiling-firefox-extensions-i-have 
layout: post 
title: Profiling Firefox Extensions I have installed 
time: 2008-11-29 14:42:00 +00:00 
--- 

* My Current Firefox Extensions: A-Z*  
[![image](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFVNbiXnSI/AAAAAAAADbc/5R5fcnC-ZP0/s200/74.png)](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFVNbiXnSI/AAAAAAAADbc/5R5fcnC-ZP0/s1600-h/74.png)[Adblock
Plus](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/1865); because ads
are for people that don't know how to avoid them! Not only do they stop
your banwidth from being wasted; they make a ton of websites more
usuable. It takes care of Flash Ads as well as static ones; using a
filter that is constantly updated. So even if some of the webs more
devious and sneaky advertisers try to circumvent it; AdBlock can have a
fix to everyone online within hours. It is definately my favourite
extension! I don't block certain ads like Google, Yahoo, Microsoft (the
ones with decent reputations) as that is how the people behind really
good websites I frequent make a living. But for all the rest trying to
do pop-ups and pop-unders; I am sorry your days are numbered! (Some
people higly recommend
[flashblock](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/433) but I
haven't had a need to use it with AdBlock Plus yet).  
[![image](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFXUVn2yrI/AAAAAAAADbk/oepRKJkjEto/s320/943948800.png)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFXUVn2yrI/AAAAAAAADbk/oepRKJkjEto/s1600-h/943948800.png)  
  
[CustomizeGoogle](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/743)
adds neat tricks to Google services such as always using a secure
connection to Gmail; links to other search engines, page histories,
Favicons to search and streaming results pages. Comes in handy once in a
while; but I don't use it daily.  
  
  
[![image](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFY84xS6qI/AAAAAAAADbs/IY6CmNknWDw/s320/1226529926.png)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFY84xS6qI/AAAAAAAADbs/IY6CmNknWDw/s1600-h/1226529926.png)[FireGPG](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/4645)
adds the full encryption and signing power of PGP to your Firefox
browser. They have built in buttons for Gmail and right click options to
sign, decrypt, encrypt and much more. A must have for privacy-aware
people out there. Only downside is you need to create a Web of Trust
with the keys you choose to use.  
  
[![image](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFazehJvqI/AAAAAAAADb8/0RisGjBs9Ms/s320/1206748320.png)](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFazehJvqI/AAAAAAAADb8/0RisGjBs9Ms/s1600-h/1206748320.png)[Foxmarks](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/2410):
synchronises your bookmarks, passwords accross any computer with Firefox
installed (they have plans for Internet Explorer and Safari). It is
definately my most used extension; comes in handy almost daily. I use a
lot of different computers; and Foxmarks keeps them all in sync! Only
thing they are missing is extension syncing (while keeping your
preferences); but hopefully that will happen in the future!   
  
[![image](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFZwyN4iJI/AAAAAAAADb0/s-ak4JWJzz8/s320/logo_153x43.gif)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFZwyN4iJI/AAAAAAAADb0/s-ak4JWJzz8/s1600-h/logo_153x43.gif)  
[Gears](http://gears.google.com/): enables offline access in Google
Reader and Google Docs. I have been hoping for awhile that they would
extend this to gmail; but no such luck yet. It is mildly useful; but I
wouldn't use it daily.  
  
[![image](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFbT4MEsEI/AAAAAAAADcE/y9w21fgYkXg/s320/1222809990.png)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFbT4MEsEI/AAAAAAAADcE/y9w21fgYkXg/s1600-h/1222809990.png)[PingFire](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/8365)
allows you to use Ping.fm service to send quick status messages to Bebo,
Facebook, Twitter, Jaiku, Blogger, Wordpress.com and 100's more. Really
useful to alert people to what you are up to!  
  
[![image](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFcMkRRJFI/AAAAAAAADcM/qVzFFrSf5Vc/s320/1187524480.png)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_4VvLQrhTX4I/STFcMkRRJFI/AAAAAAAADcM/qVzFFrSf5Vc/s1600-h/1187524480.png)
[SpeedDial](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/4810):
Opera's innovative approach has been replicated in 100's of Firefox
Add-ons; not least this one. But this is very handy when you have a
handful of websites you visit every day. It has a window with squares
filled with images of the websites which you most frequent. It makes
checking news and your favourites websites a breeze. Customisation
options for the tinkerers among us are quite good also....