--- 
name: year 
layout: post 
title: Letter to EU Commissioner on 95 Year Copyright Extension [Updated] 
time: 2008-02-16 15:43:00 +00:00 
---
 
I recently read a Slashdot article "[EU Commissioner proposes 95 year
copyright](http://slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=08/02/14/1626228)". I am a
staunch supporter of the European project; or at least the ideals it is
based on to create a peaceful, demcratic union of countries with a
common background and share similiar goals. Intrigued by the article I
read it only to find out that a local man who used to represent my area
was responsible. I had to write to him to ask how he lost his mind....  
  
> Dear Mr. McCreevy;  
>   
> I am writing to you from Kildare. You have served our county over the
> years; and I even thought you would become Taoiseach (Prime Minister
> of Ireland) one day (being the Minister for Finance is a front-runner
> position- let's be honest) but then you went to Europe.  
>   
> But that's not the subject of this correspondence. I am writing to you
> to voice my disgust for your proposed levies and taxes in conjunction
> with an even longer copyright extension. What are you thinking Mr.
> McCreevy? The average musician does not live for 95 years. I am
> responding to points made by you in the [International Herald
> Tribune](http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2008/02/14/business/EU-FIN-EU-Music-Royalties.php)
> (Original article: AP Newswire; Published 14/02/2008) and the
> legislation proposed at your level in the commission (through which
> you will have direct influence).  
>   
> 1. Your Misguided view of copyright:  
> > "If nothing is done, thousands of European performers who recorded
> > in the late 1950s and 1960s will lose all of their airplay royalties
> > over the next ten years," said EU Commissioner Charlie McCreevy, the
> > union's internal market chief. "These royalties are often their sole
> > pension."
>
> I don't know about you Mr. McCreevy; but I will have to set aside
> money from my earnings for my pension;. why shouldn't artists?
> Copyright is supposed to encourage innovation; not reward old
> creations. Copyright on these works should have rightfully expired on
> these a long time ago; forcing these musicians to create more music we
> all love and enjoy, instead of idly collecting money for work done
> sometimes as much as fifty years ago. These Musicians were already
> paid for their works a long time ago; and they signed it over to a
> [record] company. You are only enriching a company that contributes
> zero cultural value back by extending a copyright term. This has been
> proven time and time again if you would do your research.  
>   
> 2. Extra Copies / Levies  
> > The EU executive also wants to look again at reforming copyright
> > levies charged on blank discs, data storage and music and video
> > players to compensate artists and copyright holders for legal
> > copying when listeners burn an extra version of an album to play one
> > at home and one in the car.
>
>   
> Why should as a consumer I have to pay twice for a music recording?
> You know this will only have the effect of driving up the cost of a CD
> and increasing piracy? "You can't charge me twice if I choose to
> pirate it!"; and this is how a lot of consumers will see it; like
> double tax evasion only easier with less risk! You must recognise also
> that the music collection agencies are run by cartels that is the
> music industry (Big Four: SonyBMG, Warner, EMI, Universal ) which is
> almost never fair to artists? (Look at SoundExchange in the United
> States for this). What about when I use disks for backup of my data
> (which is the only reason I use them for) why should I pay royalties
> for music I never pirated? How also can you tell which artists
> deserves more royalties than the next? You can't; and that is why this
> idea is so stupid you should put it to bed now!  
>   
> 3. Who it benefits?  
>   
> > The extension would not benefit only stars such as French crooner
> > Charles Aznavour or British pop star Cliff Richard, McCreevy said.
> > Session musicians who played on a recording would also be able to
> > draw on a new fund.
>
>   
> Ah-ha-ha-ha You see Mr. Mc.Creevy case in point! These men actually
> own; or have very liberal licensing terms with their record companies;
> allowing them in the first place to be spokespeople for longer
> copyright terms. The same cannot be said for the vast majority of
> artists; who don't have that luxury. Please remind me what exactly
> these men have contributed to society musically in the last few years?
> Oh riiiiiight; thats nothing; zero; zilch! What about others of that
> era? Elvis? dead and buried! Beatles? no longer around! and I could go
> on and on and on about how they are literally getting money for
> nothing..... The only beneficiary will be the record companies who own
> the recordings to 70's and 80's material which is lucrative (for this
> see Michael Jackson owning some of the Beatles catalogue).  
>   
>   
> My plea to you is to stop this insanity and work towards less
> copyright restriction not more. Copyright was originally designed to
> safeguard an original author to make back the time and the effort
> he/she put into the creation which benefitted society (ie.
> compensation usually in the form of monetary gain). With this
> understanding it's plain to see these people have long since got back
> many times the creative energy they put in and societies debt to them
> has long since passed.  
>   
> Regards,  
> Your former constituent;  
> N Grogan  
>   
> 14/02/2008  
>   
>   
> P.S. I am eagerly awaiting you reply and any comments you have on what
> I have said...

I got a reply from someone in the commissioners office (I have removed
the name); better than nothing but I'd still like to hear from him on
the matter.... Anyway here it is:  
  
> Dear Mr Grogan,   
> Thank you for your e-mail of 14 February concerning the term of
> protection for sound recordings.   
> The Commissioner has noted your most interesting comments. These will
> be taken into account in the elaboration of the formal Commission
> proposal.