--- 
name: ssh-guide 
layout: post 
title: SSH Guide 
time: 2008-11-17 08:00:00 +00:00 
---

## **Note: This Guide was written for use by my Computer Science class
on Linux (and Mac OS X where noted). I haven't used SSH on Windows; but
hopefully someone can make sure this guide works also on Windows by
noting differences). SSH comes with nearly all Linux distros and all Mac
OS X releases.   
**

**OS Specific Colours: Linux - Mac OS X - Windows**  
**   
**  
**[Download SSH For
Windows](http://downloads.sourceforge.net/sshwindows/setupssh381-20040709.zip?modtime=1089331200&big_mirror=0)  
**  
  
***Windows: ****You need to follow README located in Start \> All
Programs \> OpenSSH \> README to set up password directories and files.
After that is done; just do Start \> Run; type cmd and hit enter to get
Windows command line. All commands beginning with SSH should run
unmodified. ****  
***  
  
By default it allows access to your username and password; which is okay
but not totally secure! If you are logging on from a machine which has
the same username as one you are trying to access you can drop
'myusername@' bit. mylaptop represents the IP address of the machine you
are trying to contact!  
  
 **$** ssh myusername@mylaptop   
  
To forward X server (use the flag -Y on Mac OS X) :  
 **$** ssh -X myusername@mylaptop  
  
To use a different port (where port is WXYZ) also: (use the flag -Y on
Mac OS X):  
 **$** ssh -X myusername@mylaptop -p WXYZ  
  
### **How to get it more secure:*** *

### *Generate your own key (this will ask for a password; can be left
blank but not recommended):*  

**$** ssh-keygen   
  
*Copy your key to machine you want to login to:*  
 **$** scp \~/.ssh/id\_dsa.pub mylaptop:\~/.ssh/authorized\_  
keys2  
(This command uses SCP (Secure Copy) to copy your key into a list of
keys allowed on remote machine. You also have an authorized\_keys2 on
your computer)
### *Edit Configuration File:*

*Finally edit configuration to make it more secure (nano is a
lightweight text editor - **this command will be very different on
Windows; since it won't have sudo command, nano editor or the SSH
configuration file in the same place; I currently have no clue what it
would be on Windows**):*  
 **$** sudo nano /etc/sshd\_config   
  
* Options I recommend changing (hash at the start means it is commented
out; so remove to take effect) :*  
 \#Port 22 - change to whatever; recommended between 2000-65000  
  
* Enable these three:*  
 \#RSAAuthentication yes** **  
 \#PubkeyAuthentication yes
\#AuthorizedKeysFile .ssh/authorized\_keys
*  
 Set to 'yes' and uncomment to allow forwarding of visuals:*  
 \#X11Forwarding no  
  
* Set to 'yes' and uncomment if you want to use your machine as a
proxy:*  
 \#AllowTcpForwarding yes  
 \#PermitTunnel no
*Now **save the file** with you changes ( CTRL and X; it will ask to
save; enter Y and enter key). These will not come in to effect until to
stop and start the SSH server! *
**Stop/Start on Linux**
To stop SSH server, enter:  
 **$**` sudo /etc/init.d/ssh stop`  
To start SSH server, enter:  
 **$**` sudo /etc/init.d/ssh start`  
To restart ssh server, enter:  
 **$**` sudo /etc/init.d/ssh restart`
  
**Stop/Start OS X**
To stop SSH Server, enter:
**$** sudo /sbin/service ssh stop
To Start SSH server, enter:
**$** sudo /sbin/service ssh start
**  
That is it!**  
Most of the options you can skip based on preference. I recommend not
allowing password only login and setting up keys. It is much harder to
break; and there is no 'known' way to break it....