--- 
name: review 
layout: post 
title: HP Photosmart R927 Review 
time: 2007-06-14 01:38:00 +01:00 
---

I just bought a HP Photosmart R927, an 8 Megapixel camera from
Hewlett-Packard. While I had seen and briefly used one before, I was
excited again upon using my own one (as all tech people are [read:
geeks]). First of all don't confuse me as anyway into photography: I'm
not and far from it. I had a criteria in mind when I purchased and this
was it:

-   Must work under any OS (Windows [a given], Mac and Linux [latter two
    I only use])

Every camera I have come across mounts as a disc drive [think looking at
files on a cd or your local computer], but there is also PTP or "Picture
Transfer Protocol" in other words it doesn't appear as picture files,
rather PTP triggers your computer to open your camera in your photo
application. I was unsure if this PTP would work under Mac or Linux,
since I had only briefly seen it as an option in
[digiKam](http://www.digikam.org/). It turns out on Mac there is [Image
Capture](http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/imagecapture/), and Ubuntu
(My Linux distribution of choice) it automatically detects it and asks
to import photos into[F-Spot](http://f-spot.org/).

-   It must have decent Image Quality

Now decent to me means decent as in "a 128kbps MP3 sounds the same as a
cd"! I am not talking uber-quality, far from it. There is already a
Samsung 6MP camera in my household, and it more than does the job,
despite occasionally messing up focus and being nearly two years old. I
want a "point and click" with decent image quality, and I believe we are
mostly there with todays cameras (compared to old 35mm film. I know only
SLR come under the term "decent image quality" to some [professionals].

-   It must have portability

Phone cameras are an indication of the future, there won't be any real
cameras besides ones used by professionals eventually. Why? Portability.
People don't want 20 devices and the weight attached to it, I have
trouble making sure wallet, keys and my phone are on me, and a camera
adds to this striuggle today.This is the same reason people are ditching
cd's for iPods: portability.

### Now for my review:

The R927 looks good, but with camera sizes decreasing, it ends up being
bigger than most. Its brushed metal feel is somewhat amusing, maybe a
tribute to Apple Computers Brushed Metal theme in iTunes? The picture
quality is great, and it certainly matches and beats many other cameras
I have tried. My R927 came with a dock, and the camera itself has only
one port: a usb one [This as I am after finding out is not true, the one
port on the camera is non-standard usb it seems, so it can only be used
through a dock, rather annoying if your travelling it seems to me!]. I
really liked that fact as it clears up clutter and removes confusion,
with only one slot, for one cable (I am thinking of many other similar
sized cameras than try to have the kitchen sink with a port for video, a
second memory card port, usb port, basically: every port possible).

Its screen is something to behold: bright, clean, clear and crisp. This
apparently comes at a cost though, in a PC World review ( in which this
camera ranked \#2 out of \#10 "Point and Click Cameras"), they said it
had the shortest life at 114 photos of any in the top 10. Since I only
have mine a few hours, I can't comment on this yet, but one thing I will
say: the battery is easily replaceable: I found the exact same 3.7 V
Li-ion battery in my Bluetooth GPS Receiver (a low end one), so buying a
backup battery they said might be a good option.  
  
  
  
The Cameras photo manipulation is full featured, as are the menus in
this camera. You can crop, change contrast, brightness, add frames and
dozens of other features without touching photo editing software on a
computer. Is that a plus or minus? Depends on the user really, I might
use it the odd time, but as someone who likes long lasting batteries: it
won't be too often I will. It modes are variful and plenty also: beach
mode, auto mode, landscape, portrait, theatre, panaroma etc. Panorama is
a lot of fun, but it takes a while for the camera to "stitch" the
photos, and if made out of high quality images: beware, the panorma
won't be as of the same quality. Document Mode puzzled me, the camera
says it captures text clearly. This wasn't the case in my experience and
with no text recognition software in the camera or accompanying
software, one could be left typing a long document from looking at an
image of one!!

It's design and layout are elegant and useful. The main navigation d-pad
feels a bit clicky (with a clicky sound to match) and the zoom is
controlled by the far-edges of an upside-down "L" shape. It has a: Flash
Button, Contrast Button, Sharing Button. Preview button and On/Off. The
sharing button is linked to HP's software and allows you to select
photos to email, print and share upon your connection to a computer. I
found this annoying as I do things manually, but some average users
might consider this a bonus. I got a dock, a power cable, usb cable, and
UK & Ireland plus a European plug within the camera's very nice
package.  
  
  
  
Overall I'd give it an 8.8/10 so far. Battery life leads me to lower its
score somewhat, and the fact that the camera is bulkier than most. Other
than that it is a great buy, and well recommended thus far. I will
update this if I ever have any problems with it!
