--- 
name: updates-and-new-look 
layout: post 
title: Updates and New look
time: 2007-02-14 00:39:00 +00:00 
--- 

![Wordpress
Logo](http://img164.imageshack.us/img164/9038/wordpresslogoxv7.jpg "Wordpress Logo")Just
a note on the new look, hope you like it. I am very fortunate to be
running
[Wordpress](http://wordpress.org/ "Wordpress Blogging Software"), the
world's best blogging tool (and it is open source). I looked up the
fabulous theme site to go with it, and I came across this one and liked
it very much. The last design was my own, but I had awful trouble
implementing to look the same in all browsers (especially Internet
Explorer, even the latest one, argh). I know the old one can be
improved, so I am submitting to [WP Themes
directory](http://themes.wordpress.net/ "Wordpress Themes"), which I
will update this post with the link. I love the new theme, it brings
what I couldn't to the old one: choosable colours and sameness across
browsers. I'd like to thank Justin Winslow for that! Did I mention that
the exact same colours are used in this theme? It brings a total
different look though, the power of perception! So now you know these
are the official DF's colours!  
  
  
  
Further to this, I appreiciate the way posts (on their own page) now
take up the whole page. I don't know about all of you, but I hate
intrusive sidebars. Sidebars in general are a necessary evil (for
navigating the site!), but I am also happy this design is more
"ergonomic". I have also added one more adblock, so now the top and
bottom of posts will feature ads by Google. While I don't make a lot of
money at all, every bit goes towards my costs and promotes two software
packages I recommend personally anyway: Firefox and Google Pack. I see
this as a win-win situation, so I hope readers won't mind. The ads in
the sidebar should no longer feature any Microsoft advertisements, as I
have done my best to filter them through the competitive ad filter.
Microsoft's policy on just about (almost) everything is contrary to my
opinion, so I don't feel I should give them exposure. But credit where
credits due, hopefully when I see good things I'll write about it!