--- 
name: nerf-war
layout: post
title: Reflection on 9-11
time: 2011-09-12 13:38:00 +01:00
---

It's been 10 years since the anniversary of 9/11 and much of the world has
changed a lot in that period. We've had full body scanners at airports,
marshalls on flights, bombs hidden in toner cartridges and two wars. I
reflected on this and remembered two really good articles I'll share here
on the topic. Hopefully we've changed for the better.

>Yesterday I finally wrote something that's been bothering me for about ten years: 
>The fact that Al Qaeda can't be as big and bad as it's made out to be, 
>because its whole design violates every rule of guerrilla organisation. 
>It's like a counter intelligence officer's dream, 
>the Al Qaeda plan to bring guerrillas from all over the world, 
>introduce them to each other, and exchange funds, material and ideas.
>
>It was pure cowardice that kept me from saying that sooner. 
>A good lesson for me in not listening to the majority. The majority, the media, 
>whatever you want to call it-maybe "the background noise" is the best way to describe it-kept 
>saying that Al Qaeda was the biggest baddest thing in history and even though I grumbled and 
>held back a little, I bought into that idea way more than I should, knowing the way I did that 
>everything about their set-up pointed to a flash in the pan-which is what they've turned out to be.
>Back in 2005, when the Al Qaeda hoax was hitting its peak, I wrote a column called "Nerf War and 
>Real War: Al Qaeda vs. IRA." If you want a good quick lesson in why dummies like me have such a 
>hard time understanding guerrilla warfare, even when they've got all the info they need right 
>in front of them, just read that article. I re-read it yesterday, after a reader pointed out that 
>I'd praised Al Qaeda for going all out and was being inconsisent in yesterday's blog for saying 
>they blew their assets. - [WN 38 IRA VS. AL QAEDA: I WAS WRONG][IRA]

>In the aftermath of the disaster, the sheer demand for information sent news site after news site 
>crashing down, especially in the US, leaving the world once more glued to the telly for the up-to-the-minute 
>details of what was taking place.
>
>The Register did its best. Generally, the site stayed up, and in response to email requests from Americans 
>who were stuck at work, Reg hacks posted rolling updates, sourced from TV and radio, as the disaster unfolded.
>
>Ten years on, things have changed. For starters, internet infrastructure is much more robust. In 2011, the 
>internet still hasn't beaten TV for serving up breaking news, but it's at least an equal player now, with news 
>organizations trawling Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, and personal blogs to find out what is happening on the ground.
> - [Ten years after the Twin Towers: What's the Reg angle?][REG]

[IRA]: http://exiledonline.com/wn-38-ira-vs-al-qaeda-i-was-wrong/
[REG]: http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/09/11/9_11_ten_years_on/