--- 
name: gallery-riots-and-policy-change 
layout: post 
title: Gallery, Riots and Policy Change 
tags: [Politics]
time: 2006-03-02 20:38:00 +00:00 
--- 

Well I can’t believe I only had one post in February! A lot has happened since
then, with Danish cartoons, Dublin Riots and a few policy changes to the site.
First of all the cartoons, I mean, whats all the fuss? Christianity is banned
in Saudi Arabia and Muslims in the middle east just don’t get the idea of
‘free press’. No one should be allowed to immigrate to the western world, if
they do not hold the core values which we hold, such as human rights, free of
expression/press and other values. Should we worry about the middle east? Not
at all, they’re behind the times, their loss. Why is it that movies which
parody Christianity are so popular with Christians (like Monty Python)? We
have evolved and can tolerate jokes and laugh at ourselves, many, but not all
Muslims have not learned to do this, but they will, its called evolution, and
sooner or later, it will hit the middle east. I am not defending the Cartoons,
and I know Muslims do not produce images of Muhammad, and offense to this, I
can understand. But they need to relax, maybe try some of the many drugs they
like to export to us?


I could not but laugh at all the scumbags fighting each other in Dublin! In
the end all the unionists got on their buses and went back, being entirely
safe. Now if that doesn’t make you support the new prison in North Dublin, I
don’t know what will. I was reading some of the free newspapers and they claim
that the underprivileged in Irish Society were showing the Government up, I
disagree, all they wanted was notoriety with their friends for “wreckin de
gaff” in Dublin's famous streets. I say we make them all do community service
in some of Belfast's most staunchest unionist estates, maybe that might revert
their need to be “mad scones”? I fully supported the march, even if it was
discriminatory against Catholics (Only for Protestant Victims of IRA), as
every one has the right to march, whether unionists, republicans or socialists
(wait aren’t the last two the same thing? I am confused!).

Finally some updates to the site, I have reversed the ‘free edit’ policy, now
you have to login to edit articles. Although vandalism was by no means
rampant, I felt it easier if people took the 2 minutes to register, if they
want to contribute. Also, we now have RSS feeds! Powered by feedburner, it
lets me track readership and other useful values. I am just working on getting
listed on all major blog sites. Also I am currently installing a gallery to
house my photos of Germany, expect it soon!
