--- 
name: linux-vs-windows 
layout: post 
title: Linux VS. Windows 
tags: [Linux, Windows]
---

I use Linux, I also use Windows. I see the merits of the two, as they are
different. Most people don’t see this distinction, that although the two OSes
do many of the same functions, they remain lightyears apart. I have to admit I
preach Linux to the hilt, I shouldn’t, but I do. I get skeptical Windows users
who ask me what Linux does better, and I am stuck for an answer, as it does a
lot of tasks better.

![Windows Vs.
Linux](http://www.pages.drexel.edu/~ap29/partitions.jpg)

For example, half life of Windows vs. Ubuntu (My Distro of Choice), Ubuntu
wins hands down. Its the way that its very hard to install stuff to decrease
system speed, yet on Windows it is terrifingly easy. I am on my cousins
computer at the moment, sure enough its at the year stage and takes ages to
load anything. Its got the usual bloatware, such as a very bulky
antivirus/firewall, they own an iPod which starts iTunes and Quicktime, Use
MSN & Skype and other stuff that start automatically, which is why Windows is
crippled, they all have the computers resources for breakfast! I get one of
two answers, either A) Sure I use all of them, thats convienience! or B) Sure
you can switch it off in the programs preferences. My answer to A) No it
isn’t, you try run a game, or office suite, you soon find you won’t be able to
listen to that song in the background on iTunes, or watch that movie on
Quicktime, or message those friends of yours on MSN, you soon find you can’t
do any of them, and to B) Most users don’t want the hassle to turn it off, why
can’t their computer “Just Work”, like Windows users are fond of pointing out?

My issue with Microsoft, is that, in the course to make software accessible,
they left security and their morals at the door. In Linux, we have a
permissions system, you don’t have permission to modify a file, though. On
Windows every user gets equal access, but this means so does every Virus and
piece of spyware. What good is the Banking document if the whole world knows
its contents? What Linux does best is it focuses on Software, and quality is
the bottom line. If a feature isn’t ready, it will not be released to the
public, full stop.

Still I get Windows people that refuse to budge, even though concerns are well
documented. I havesome things to say to them, it doesn’t matter what you
think, let me illustrate this to be clear: Their are 900 Million pc’s in the
world, of which 90% use Windows. In India and China, lie 1/3 of this earths
population ( 2 Billion ), most popular OS? Linux. Give it twenty years, when
wealth increases, this will be reflected when Windows share dwindles. Case in
Point: South America: the Brazilian Govt. has switched totally to Linux, now
the countries most popular OS, this trend is continuing across South America,
buoyed by Anti-Americanism. Also Africa, the worlds poorest continent is set
to see huge influxes of Linux wind up laptops. This continues to the developed
world albeit at a much slower pace, with most European countries registering a
decent linux percentage and even the European commision talking about Europe
wide Open Source intiatives.

Who Will Win? The average computer user, as software gets cheaper, choices and
competition become more apparent.Even if your a loyal Windows user, I argue
you try and encourage Linux developement, as in the end it will force
Microsoft to be more competitive and make better software. Computing is not a
luxury any more, it is an essential way of life, and its due to change more
lives this century than ever before.
