--- 
name: just-klik-it 
layout: post 
title: Just Klik it! 
tags: [Software]
time: 2006-03-25 20:41:00 +00:00 
---

One of the biggest complaints of Linux is that software doesn’t install to
well, or is very difficult to install. “Dependency Hell” (When software relies
on other bits of software to work), used to be quite commonplace. Ubuntu has
cleaned a lot of dependency hell up, and a new program for installing software
from the internet, is included in the new version, due to be released 1st June
2006.

That’s when I discovered a little gem called [Klik][] for many Linux
distributions. Simply lookup the piece of software you need, click on it and
you have it! No need to install! It places the whole program on the desktop,
so it is easily deletable and easily transferable. For example, if you have an
office application, and your friend doesn’t, simply copy that file on desktop
to your usb key or a cd, and copy to friends pc, done and dusted - Your friend
has the whole application! This is an obvious feature bonus over current
Windows version, XP.

Their is some teething problems, some applications fail to work, and in Ubuntu
it has a dependency of libstdc++, a library of files to make it work. Easy
instructions to install Klik are included on their website, though. It seems
they are seeking co-operation from Ubuntu aneedsd other distributions to iron
out problems, which is always a good sign. Klik also trys to have “bleeding
edge” stable versions of software, so in distrobutions not upgraded
frequently, this can cause more problems. Out of ten, I’d give Klik an 8.5, as
it still needs ironing-out. But then again I have been using the web for over
ten years, so novice users may feel different on its ease of use.

[Klik]: http://klik.atekon.de/ "Klik it!"