--- 
name: ipad-evolution 
layout: post 
title: iPad Evolution? 
time: 2010-10-26 20:00:00 +01:00 
---

Since Apple released an iPad there have been various competitors
announced, so it got me thinking what would it take for me to buy one? I
haven't bought the first generation iPad because the lack of a camera on
a device so obviously good for fullscreen video calls has baffled me. I
guess they have to store up some ideas since they need a new hardware
iteration every year, Apple's revenue model depends on that vital
hardware refresh cycle.

![Apple iPad. Photo Courtesy:Â Yutaka
Tsutano](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4020/4498290240_c16ee8e4b3_d.jpg)
I think the huge leaps the iPod has made in the 9 years of it's
existence is an Indicator of the iPad's future more than the iPhone is.
Which sounds confusing because the iPhone/iPad are such close relatives
in software and hardware terms. The iPod when released had laughably
small (even for 2001) memory and a FireWire port (not common then) to
being one of the biggest consumer success' of all time. It started off
with low memory, buttons to press, black and white screen to iPod
Colour/Photo to Nano to iPod Touch born from iPhone. I think the iPad
will be the rising star and technology will be back-ported from it to
iPhone (instead of other way round as has happened to date).   
  
The form factor is what gives it that advantage. I wouldn't be surprised
to see 3D movies or a table made out of iPad screens (like Microsoft has
done), and they're just obvious uses. Pico projectors would be ideal for
iPad sized device before being ported to phones. But this is all
obviously future features, down the line eventually. I think the big
surprise will be future software integrations and hardware sensors to do
all sorts of crazy input leading to all new kinds of areas not
immediately obvious, like the iPhone being such a big gaming success,
which no one predicted: fingers are a very clumsy medium but it turns
out a whole new category of game sprung up like Angry Birds or Cut the
Rope.

![iPad Home screen. Photo Courtesy:
3GStore.de](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4138/4745626595_f73f04a206_d.jpg)
So I see this innovation in the pipeline and I think iPad first gen is
very first gen. Future iPads may be a distant cousin just like original
iPod and iPod touch are. So it's a thing I will hold off on investing in
for a few years because iterations will move so quickly.. your only
paying directly for the later version you really want!
