--- 
name: haiku-open-source-beos-clone 
layout: post 
title: "Haiku: Open Source BeOS clone" 
time: 2010-06-06 22:01:00 +01:00 
--- 

I usually listen
to podcasts on the excellent Twit.tv network and it goes without saying
[Floss Weekly](http://www.twit.tv/floss) is one of my favourites. [A
recent episode](http://www.twit.tv/floss120) covered
[Haiku](http://www.haiku-os.org/) - an open source operating system
based on the design of the old BeOS. What's very interesting about
[BeOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BeOS) is the design, an integrated
all in one operating system - and the fact Apple almost purchased it.
That's amazing to me, literally in one fell swoop, if Apple had of
offered the 200 million Be Systems wanted, there would be no NextStep
into Apple and by extension - Steve Jobs. It's especially poignant since
Apple just surpassed Microsoft to become the second most valuable
American company.  
  
  
  
The most spiritually similar of todays operating systems would be Mac OS
X, as it brings the integration BeOS was after. I've only played with
Haiku in a virtual machine, but already I am impressed. It's a well
designed system, not as buggy as I expected - it's only on alpha2 after
years of development. There's already a lot of applications, all native
and therein lies the fault. The Web browser (not surprisingly) is the
buggiest of all the applications I tried. Most apps are small one
purpose apps, not hard to see a unixy philosophy. One of the developer's
mentioned a port of QT, which could bring QT based apps such as Skype,
KDE apps.  
  
**Apps or Web?**  
I think the biggest use of Haiku could be on net-books, it performed
extremely well in limited virtual machine - so it's a pity there's no
commercial sponsor to push it out. The developers mentioned a port of
Java or GTK is not on the radar, so you can kiss good-bye to any Gnome
or Java apps (Firefox, Chrome, OpenOffice.org), but they mentioned they
will target web apps. This seems very curious without a major web
browser, as anyone knows the web should be standards based but how often
have we seen "Supports Chrome 3+ Firefox 3+ Safari 4+ IE7+" so if this
is the agreed upon approach - they really need a major browser. As a
computer science person, the design of the system interests me the most,
vs others, but I haven't dug too deep yet, when I do, I'll be sure to
post.  
  
**Hardware Support**  
I haven't dug in to this either, but anecdotally a good guess would be
hardware support would be poor. The main hurdle and the majority of code
in Linux is purely based on the millions of hardware combinations
PC-based (X86) have to use. This is why for any traction for Haiku, I
think hardware support needs to be OEM based, possibly like the
[white-label](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White-label_product) EEE PC
netbooks.  
  
If you like trying different operating systems, have a copy of
VirtualBox or VMWare (and by extension a decently fast computer) give
Haiku a try!