--- 
name: interview-being-woman-in-computer 
layout: post 
title: Interview - Being a Woman in Computer Science
time: 2010-03-09 22:23:00 +00:00 
--- 

One topic that rarely gets coverage that I've seen is how
women get along in male dominated environments, such as Computer
Science. For me it has never mattered someone's gender - I love using,
tweaking and learning about computers and if you share that interest -
the more, the better! It has been shown very young children are
conditioned from a very young age by gender rules - shown by Prof.
Robert Winston in Child of Our Time programme. So I've often wondered in
a very skewed ratio of males to females (as generally there are more
females than males in society) would affect a Woman's choice of even
considering Computer Science, since so few actually do. So I set about
asking our class representative, ***Lauren Butler***, her thoughts on
Computers, doing Computer Science and being an authority figure in a
male dominated class-room, my questions and her answers follow:  
  
**NG** = Neil Grogan - **LB** = Lauren Butler - **ED** = Editor  
  
**NG:** What first sparked your interest in Computers?  
  
** LB:** Learning computers in Secondary School, seemed like a cool
thing. But obviously I had been playing computer games for years since
the Sega Mega drive came out so in a way I had probably been into
computers and not really realized.  
  
**NG:** Do you remember the first Computer you got?  
  
**LB:** Some Toshiba piece of heavy brick like crap but it had Windows
XP on it yay, the battery charger connection broke and couldn't power it
anymore so now it's dead and good riddance I say.  
  
**NG:** When did you first realise you'd like to do Computer Science? In
School? Or after?  
  
**LB:** Secondary School filling out my CAO application because I
couldn't think of anything else. Guidance councilor said to do arts
(typical response to a person that doesn't know what to do) but I wanted
to be a Garda *(ed: a police officer in Ireland)* and computers was my
fall back. Long story short the Gard's didn't want me after the whole
application process so I went to my plan B...computers.  
  
**NG:** Would you describe yourself as a Tomboy? You seem to fit the
description of Heterosociality, ie. Preferring (or at least having to)
have more male friends than female.  
  
**LB:** Yes I'm a tomboy, obviously it's kinda of weird for a girl to
like computers and computer games. I do have a lot of guy friends and I
do find them easier to get along with but I have a good amount of girl
friends too.  
  
**NG:** Do you remember you first perception of the female to male ratio
of the class in first year (approx 3:40) ?  
  
**LB:** "JESUS I Can't believe I'm going to have to be in a class with
all boys...oh wait there's 4 girls over there"  
  
**NG:** Did the fact that Computer Science is male dominated influence
your choice negatively or positively?  
  
**LB:** Neither. but I do get on better with boys than I do girls so In
a way it's kind of better for me to be in a male dominated
environment.  
  
**NG:** Do you feel female lecturers have been tougher or easier on you
that you share gender? (ie. Common experiences)  
  
** LB:** I don't think they have been tougher but I do find they can't
interact with me as well as they do with the males  
  
**NG:** Do you feel male lecturers have been tougher or easier on you
that you differ in gender?  
  
**LB:** No I don't think they have been either but I may get away with
being a bit ditsy at times  
  
**NG:** Do you feel the fact the male to female ratio is skewed will
help or hinder your career prospects?  
  
**LB:** No I don't think it will affect it in any way and it should or
at least I hope it will be based on academics.  
  
**NG:** What would it take to encourage more Women to consider Computer
Science? What would you say to sell it to them as a profession?  
  
**LB:** I honestly don't know but the fact that you can get into
basically any part of the computer industry by doing this course could
be an incentive.  
  
**NG: **Do you feel any aspect of the course is more male orientated? I
remember one lecturer saying female students excel at coursework, but
this reverses as projects come in later years, which males apparently do
better at?  
  
**LB:** No I don't think it's more male orientated but maybe that
lecturer thinks the more hands on stuff is more male orientated but if
like me who is a tomboy that sort of thing should be more interesting,
i.e fixing computers that's my favorite thing, one of which we don't do
enough of.  
  
**NG:** As Class representative and a leader of the class, do you feel
being a woman has positively impacted the class â€“ i.e. That different
experiences & differing management styles of Women can be a unifying
force?  
  
**LB: **I really don't think I have had any sort of impact on the class,
I'm just a very open person and I'd like to think that anyone in the
class could come and class to me.  
  
**NG: **Do you ever wish people would stop focusing on this male/female
thing and that it all should be a meritocracy? It's it stupid me asking
these questions (have we already moved on?)?  
  
**LB: **I personally don't see it being focused on the male/female
thing. Especially now being in third year where we are being placed in
groups to work on projects, we all use our talents and abilities to
achieve a good grade. Defiantly in my group I work in I have never had a
problem with my gender being focused on, as long as every one pulls
they're weight who really cares about gender.